.TH MD5SUM 1 "GNU Text Utilities" "FSF" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
md5sum \- compute and check MD5 message digest
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B md5sum
[\-bhtvV] [\-c file] [\-s[string]] [\-\-binary] [\-\-check=file]
[\-\-help] [\-\-string[=string]] [\-\-text] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-version]
[file...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This documentation is no longer being maintained and may be inaccurate
or incomplete.  The Texinfo documentation is now the authoritative source.
.PP
This manual page
documents the GNU version of
.BR md5sum .
.B md5sum
produces for each input file a 128-bit "fingerprint" or "message-digest"
or it can check with the output of a former run whether the message digests
are still the same (i.e. whether the files changed).
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-b, \-\-binary"
Treat all input files as binary.  This normally does not make any difference
on UN*X systems but some systems have a different internal and external
representation of texts (especially the end-of-line characters).
.TP
.I "\-c, \-\-check=file"
\fIfile\fP should be the output of a former run of
.BR md5sum .
The file has in each line the MD5 sum, a binary/text flag, and a file name.
This file will be opened (with each possible relative path) and the message
digest is computed.  If it is not the same as given in this line it will be
marked as failed.
.TP
.I "\-h \-\-help"
Print a usage message and exit.
.TP
.I "\-s, \-\-string=string"
Instead of computing the message digest for a file compute it for the given
\fIstring\fP.  The result is the same as for a file with contains exactly
this \fIstring\fP.
.TP
.I "\-t, \-\-text"
Treat all input files as text files.  This is the reverse option to
.IR \-\-binary .
.TP
.I "\-v, \-\-verbose"
Verbosely write information about the process.
.TP
.I "\-V, \-\-version"
Print version information on standard output then exit.
